feat(pg-delta)!: clean-room rewrite, promoted to @supabase/pg-delta (BREAKING alpha) (#299)
supabase/pg-delta: docs/roadmap/agent-tracks/P2-unfiltered-drift.md

Prove reconstructs the projected desired view (`resolveView` / scope / baseline /
capability). Wrong view wiring fails as drift — or greens a plan that never
managed what the user thought. The failure mode this track exists for:

> Policy (or scope) accidentally dropped a **user** object from the managed view
> while it still differs in the catalog.

## Out of scope

- Action budgets (P1)
- autoSeed default flip (P3)
- Identity normalization (I1)
- Changing what `resolveView` filters — only **observability** of both layers

## Owned files (write)

| PR | Area | Paths |
|---|---|---|
| **P2a** | Attribution plumbing | `policy/policy.ts` (`resolveView`), `policy/view.ts` (`projectManagementScope`), the V1 reconstruction helper (attribution threads through it) |
| **P2a** | Reason codes / flags | Policy rule types + rule data (per-rule classification overrides) |
| **P2a** | Plan artifact | `plan/plan.ts` + the plan artifact/result type (audit attached at plan time) |
| **P2a** | Tests | Projection/policy unit tests; plan artifact tests; public-API surface tests |
| **P2b** | Prove result | `proof/prove.ts`, `proof/prove.test.ts` — surface the plan-attached audit |

> | **P2b** | CLI | `cli/commands/prove.ts`, `cli/commands/drift.ts` — additive fields only; focused cases in `tests/cli.test.ts` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **P2b** | CLI | `cli/commands/prove.ts` — plan-consuming prove surfaces the audit; raw `drift` remains unchanged; focused cases in `tests/cli.test.ts` |
```

| **Audit entry** | Suppression record joined with “does this subject differ between source and desired?” — only differing suppressed subjects are reported. |
| **Classification** | **acknowledged** vs **suspicious**, per the pinned defaults table below; per-rule flags override. The rubric is data, not a hardcoded schema list. |

**Pinned classification defaults (challenge in PR if wrong, don't improvise):**

| Stage | Default | Rationale |
|---|---|---|
| `managedBy` provenance | acknowledged | explicit ownership marker |
| Reference-only projection (extension members, assumed schemas) | acknowledged | structural, named mechanism |
| Capability restriction | acknowledged | server capability is a fact, not a choice |
| Management scope | acknowledged | explicit user/profile choice (`scope: database` etc.) |
| Policy scope rule | per-rule flag; **default suspicious for generic/wildcard matchers, acknowledged for named-object rules** | a wildcard eating a user object is exactly the bug class |

> | Baseline | **acknowledged but always visible** — baseline-suppressed *differing* subjects are reported as their own count in the audit summary, never silently folded; strict mode escalates them | the goal says baseline bugs cannot hide: a baseline that captured user state must be detectable, but flat-suspicious would red-light every image upgrade |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Baseline | **acknowledged but always visible** — baseline-suppressed *differing* subjects are reported as their own count in the audit summary, never silently folded; strict mode does **not** escalate them | the goal says baseline bugs cannot hide: a baseline that captured user state must be detectable, but flat-suspicious would red-light every image upgrade |
```

**Where the audit runs: plan time, pinned.** `provePlan` takes a finished
`Plan` and has no raw pre-projection source FactBase (`prove.ts:379-384`), so
the audit is computed during planning — where both raw fact bases are in
hand — and attached to the plan artifact; prove/CLI only surface it. Do not
add a pre-apply extraction to prove for this.

This requires `resolveView` / `projectManagementScope` (via V1’s helper) to
**emit suppression attribution** — an additive optional output, off the hot
path when not requested. That is **P2a**, the core engineering of this track
(it touches the projection path V1 just sealed — attribution must flow through
the helper, not around it). **P2b** is the prove-result/CLI surfacing on top.

## Design requirements

1. **Additive API:** existing `ok` / managed proof semantics unchanged unless
   documented as intentional. The audit is informational by default.
2. Code comments restate the audit model above at the attribution site.
3. CLI: human-readable section + machine-readable field; don’t fail CI corpus
   on audit findings unless opted in (`strictAudit` or similar — and then only

>    on **suspicious** entries, never acknowledged ones).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. CLI: `prove` always prints a human-readable section; `provePlan` returns a
   `ProducedProofVerdict` with required `projectionAudit` and
   `projectionAuditStatus`. The compatibility `ProofVerdict` keeps both fields
   optional. Raw `drift` does not consume a plan and remains unchanged. Don’t
   fail CI corpus on audit findings unless opted in (`strictAudit` or similar —
   and then only on **suspicious** entries, never acknowledged ones).
```
